CityMayor Specification
Andrť Wagner


= Introduction =

CityMayor is a city and resource management game. The player acts as the mayor
of a city, where he must make the city grow in size and number of inhabitants.
Residents are attracted by a city that offers them a good quality of life:
security, culture, entertainment, etc.

Besides that, the mayor must maintain a healty budget for the city. The main
two sources of money the city has are:

- Property Tax: paid by residentes. The healtier they are, the more taxes they
  pay.
- Sales Tax: paid over products sold to other cities. The mayor is responsable
  for managing the entire chain of production of the city, including the
  transportation of the goods.


The **goal** of the game depends on the type of game chosen. The
**open-ended game** allows the player to play indefinitely. The **campaign**
leads the mayor through different cities with diferent goals for each one.
In this case, the goals could involve:

- Achieving a given rating in one or more categories like: security,
  education, culture, prosperity, entertainment, population, exports, etc.
- Producing //x// units of a given good in some specifict timespan.
- Rescuing the city from a debt.
- Building a specific building.
- Some other goal.


= Game Initialization =

The game initialization shows a pixel-art city as a background, with the
following options for the user:

- **New Game (Campaign)** (and tutorial?): this will bring a default region,
  where the user will

- **Free play**: leads the user to a random region (for the first time) or
  the last region played, where the user can start a new free play game in
  one city of the region.

- **Options**:
  - Windowed / fullscreen
  - Resolution
  - Etc.

- **Exit game**


= Region =

A region is a cluster of cities. It is usually crossed by rivers and has a
coast. Cities can be //n//x//m//, where //n// and //m// are a size of 1 to 4
(to be defined the size of the unit).

The region is presented to the user as a isometric minimap of the real cities.
There minimaps are saved when the user saves the city. The user can choose
one of the cities, which is the one he will be playing.


= City =

The **city** is the core of the game; is the city that the player -- the mayor
-- will be in control. The city is a grid of //w//x//h// tiles, which is
presented to the player as isometric tiles.


== Terrain ==

Each tile can be land or water, and it is initially empty, except perhaps for
a few trees. The city is completely flat, without hills, mountains or
depressions. Water is of the same height as the land, though the appearance
can show a depression.

A tile with trees is desirable.


== People ==

People refers to the inhabitants of the city. People come as **immigrants**,
when they are attracted to the city by factors such as desirability,
security, education, entertainment, healthcare, jobs available, goods available,
etc.

People can have the following attributes:

- **I.Q.**: this affects the jobs a person can get. Education will make
  people's I.Q. to increase primarily, and culture and entertainment second.
  Immigrant's I.Q. will usually be dependant of the job openings, though
  it will usually be lower than the city mean.

- **Salary**: will be directly dependent of the person job (people can get a
  unemployment security for a few months if unemployed). The person's salary
  will determine if the person will have a car, and the type of residence
  the person will live in.

- **Gender**: marriage can only happen between a man and a woman.

- **Age**: a person will marry with 20 and have the first baby with 25 and
  the second with 30. The time of a person's life depends on the health
  condition the city offers, and a few others factors like salary. A person
  never retires.

- **Family**: people will marry and have two kids of random gender. The kids
  will marry and leave home when they're 20. Many times, the whole family
  will come together.

When people are unemployed, they'll look for a job that is close to their
homes and pays well.


=== Daily Routine ===

Contrary to reality, all people will leave around the same time for work.
They will work during the day, and then come back home - again, all about
the same time. Then, they'll either stay at home, or go out somewhere to 
do something fun (or grocery shopping), and then come back.

People might get sick and go to the doctor during the day.

A few people, like fireman, doctors and policemen, might work during the night.


== Structures ==

Structures refer to anything that is built on the city. Structures have a
//xy// position on the city, and a //wh// size. Some structures such as
residences and companies can hold a number of people, and many residences
can hold a number of cars as well.

Structures can be turned 90į, but cannot be placed diagonally.


=== Residences ===

Residences are the houses and apartments where the people live. They can be of:

- **Low density**: houses, that can fit up to 
- **High density**: buildings and condos, that can fit a great number of people.


There are four classes of residences, according to the sum of the salaries of
the people.

- **Low class**: salary up to $1500.
- **Middle class**: salary from $1500 ~ $3000.
- **High class**: salary from $3000 ~ $10000.
- **Millionaires**: salary above $10000. This class cannot be a high density.


The mayor can only offer a terrain of a given density/class. People are expected
to build their homes. Level 0 means a empty terrain, and each house can go from
level 1 to 4. The level depends on many factors, and will make land value and
tax collecting change, according to the following table:

TODO

Houses can upgrade and degrade according to the factors described above. But
this usually take very months to happen.

The price to offer a residence terrain for each class is:

TODO

Usually, the richer the house, the more desirable it is.


=== Workplaces ===

A workplace are building structures where people work. Each workplace will
employ a number of people and pay them a salary. A workplace can have openings
for different jobs (workers, engeneers, management) with different salaries.

A workplace that is missing workers will produce at a slower pace, or will be
less effective.

Each job opening has a minimum I.Q. needed.


==== Farms / Extraction ====

Farms, mines, extraction buildings and engeneering houses are structures
that produce raw material, that is, they produce goods without requiring any
further goods. Usually, a farm, mine or extraction building will have to be
placed on a terrain that is rich in the raw material that the structure 
produces.

This kind of building usually demands the least I.Q., and pays the least
(except for software houses). They have a limited storage space for the goods
they produce. When this storage space is exceeded, it stops producing.

The follow table explains the kinds of buildings:

TODO

- Farms
  - Vegetable farm
  - Grain farm
  - Cotton farm
  - Wheat farm
  - Livestock farm
- Mines
  - Iron ore mine
  - Sand extraction pit
  - Coal Mine
  - Uranium mine
- Extraction
  - Sand river extraction (?)
  - Oil rig
  - Oil platform
  - Timber extraction (?)
  - Salt extraction
- Engeneering
  - Software house


==== Factories ====

Factories are buildings that transform one kind of good in another. Some types
of factories demand two or more types of raw goods.

As with the extraction buildings, the factories have a limited storage space,
and will stop producing when this storage is full.

Factory table:

- Leather factory
- Wool factory
- Iron factory
- Glass factory
- Computer chip factory
- Plastic factory
- Paper factory
- Enriched uranium factory
- (Market/Bakery)
- Food factory
- Shoe factory
- Cloth factory
- Utensils / Office Supply factory
- Car factory
- Airplane factory
- Electrodomestics factory
- Computer factory
- Publisher house
- Furniture factory


==== Commerce / Services ====

Commerce and services are buildings built by the mayor that serve a wide
variety of porpouses:

- Warehouse
- Parking lot
- Public garage
- Store / Shopping Center
- Market / Super Market
- Bank (?)
- Exporter / Importer
- Hotel
- Convention Centre


==== Governamental buildings ====

===== Police =====

Police buildings will reduce crime, increasing the feeling of security of the
people. The police stations are:

- Small Police Station
- Police Station
- Police HQ


===== Education =====

Education plays a key role in developing the city, by allowing people to take
more qualified jobs, producing more tax money for the city. The educational
structures are:

- Elementary school (normal, large)
- High school (normal, large)
- College
- University
- Museum
- Library
- Research unit
- Church


===== Health =====

Health services allow people to go to a doctor and make exams when they are
sick. The healthier people are, the more satisfied they are, they skip less
work days and they live longer.

- Clinic
- Hospital
- Medical Center
- Medical Research Center


===== Water services =====
===== Power services =====

Power services are necessary to provide electricity for the people. Very few
people are willing to live in a house without electricity. If the power stations
are too far from the people, a **power line** will be necessary to take energy 
to them.

The possible stations are:

- Coal power plant
- Oil power plant
- Nucelar power plant
- Biomass power plant
- Solar power plant
- Wind power plant
- Hydroeletric power plant


The further people's houses are from the power station, less energy gets to
them. If they live too far, a **substation** might be necessary.


===== Culture / Entertainment =====

Entertainment buildings increase entertanment and cultural ratings of the city,
and increase a little people's I.Q.

- Cinema
- Theather
- Restaurant
- Stadium
- Etc...


=== Desirability ===

Desirability structures increase the desability of the surroundings. They
usually don't employ people.

- Park (tiny, small, medium, large, huge)
- Etc...


=== Federal Buildings ===

Federal buildings are (usually) undesirable buildings that the country
government install in the city, and pays the city a sum for that.

- Supermax
- Federal road
- Army barracks
- Military airfield


=== Transportation ===

==== Roads ====
- Dirt road
- Street
- Road
- Avenue
- Freeway
  - Freeway entrances
- Viaduto (?)
- Oblique parking


==== Rail ====
- Tracks
  - Rail station
- Elevated tracks
  - Elevated rail station
- Maglev
  - Maglev station
- Subway
  - Subway station


==== Air ====
- Airport (small, medium, large)


==== Sea / River ====
- Port (small, medium, large)


== Transport ==
=== People ===
=== Vehicles ===
= Economy =

== Raw Material ==
- Farming
  - Vegetables
  - Grain
  - Livestock
  - Cotton
  - Wheat
- Mining / extracting
  - Iron ore
  - Sand
  - Salt
  - Oil
  - Timber
  - Coal
  - Uranium
  - Copper
- Engeneering
  - Software


== Byproducts ==
- Leather
- Wool
- Iron
- Glass
- Computer chips
- Plastic
- Paper
- Refined Uranium


== Final products ==
- Food
  - Vegetable (1p)
  - Grain (1p)
  - Meat (2p)
  - Bread (2p)
  - Processed Food (2/3p)
- Utilites
  - Salt (1p)
  - Shoes (3p)
  - Cloth (2/3p)
  - Utensils (3p)
  - Cars (3+3+2p)
  - Airplanes (3+3+3+3p)
  - Electrodomestics (2+3p)
  - Computers (3+2p)
  - Software (1p)
  - Office Supplies (3p)
  - Books (3p)
  - Furniture (2p)
- Power
  - Biomass
  - Oil power
  - Coal power
  - Nuclear power


== Chain of Production ==
= Time =
= User interface =
